index.markdown, before:

---
layout: single
title: Clip & Ship
author_profile: true
header: 
    overlay_image: assets/images/logo_banner_textless.png
    overlay_filter: 0
---
## What is Clip & Ship?
_Clip it and ship it!_

Are you a content creator or editor? Do you hate keeping track of or scouring through 
VODs for notable moments during a broadcast? Are you tired of downloading 
entire VODs to get the footage you want? Then you need Clip & Ship!

Clip & Ship is a standalone application that enables content creators and Twitch streamers
to quickly find specific types of moments during their broadcast by analyzing
emote usage within a VOD. 

## Features

With Clip & Ship you can: 
- Create/Edit/Remove categories based on a streamers Twitch/BTTV/FFZ/other emotes.
  (ex: a "funny" category might include emotes like ![LULW](https://cdn.frankerfacez.com/emoticon/139407/1), 
  ![OMEGALUL](https://cdn.frankerfacez.com/emoticon/128054/1), 
  ![peepoGiggles](https://cdn.betterttv.net/emote/5e0bcf69031ec77bab473476/1x), etc).
- Process a streamer's VOD to find the best moments for each category.
- View processed moments in the app VOD player and see detailed statistics on emote usage during the moment.
- Download any of the moments found during processing.
- Download other moments by specifying the start & end time.
- Download the whole VOD.
- Export the list of processed moments to a CSV file.

## Install
Clip & Ship currently is supported on Mac OS and can be downloaded as an app, as an executable with a console, and as a folder with an executable.
The sizes for each bundle are 493.5 MB, 443.7 MB, and 169.8 MB respectively.

These bundles are available to download at this [link][1]. The `app.zip` file is the preferred method of install.

You will also need to download and install [ffmpeg][4] in order to download clips/vods. How you download it depends on which bundle you choose.

When running as an executable with console or as a folder with `console.zip` or `folder.zip` respectively, you can install ffmpeg with [Homebrew][2]

When running as an app with `app.zip`, use the ffmpeg executable provided or download it [here][3].
If downloading it, make sure to download the zip file under the "FFmpeg" section. Extract the zip file and copy or move the `ffmpeg` executable in the same folder as the Clip & Ship app.
You will also need to give permission to your `ffmpeg` executable to be run since it's from the internet. This can be done via the terminal using `sudo chmod +x /path/to/Clip&ShipLocation/ffmpeg` or by clicking the exe and giving permission in corresponding the prompt.

[1]:https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ezPO_5EmMOlqLagOl5KOLWunkLthpnDH?usp=sharing
[2]:https://brew.sh/
[3]:https://evermeet.cx/ffmpeg/
[4]:https://ffmpeg.org/

## Why Clip & Ship?

### It's Free
No upfront or subscription costs. Compared to similar services like 
[Highlight Play](https://highlightplay.com/) that have monthly fees, 
Clip & Ship is **the** cost-effective service to use.

### It's Smart
No other service can help you find specific types of moments.

### It's Fast
Instead of going through hours of footage, you can use Clip & Ship and 
have a list of notable moments ready in minutes. With tech from 
[twitch-dl](https://github.com/ihabunek/twitch-dl), downloads are lighting quick.

### It's Efficient
Clip & Ship supports parallel processing, so you can process multiple VODs simultaneously.

### It's Space-Saving
Only download what you need. No need to download a 6-hour long VOD just
to grab 10 minutes of footage.

### It's Open Source
The Clip & Ship source code is publicly available, meaning anyone can
analyze the workflow, verify no malicious code is present, and suggest
improvements to maintain Clip & Ship's integrity and efficiency. 

## Tradeoffs

### Everything's Local
Server costs and cloud storage is expensive, and I didn't receive funding 
for this project to pay for those services. So, Clip & Ship runs entirely 
on your machine and uses up your storage. But, that Clip & Ship is running 
locally is why it is free and open source.

### Reliance on APIs and third-party packages
Clip & Ship heavily relies on outside tech to function. The APIs used are
Twitch, BTTV, and FFZ to grab emote data for a channel. If **any** of these
APIs change or fail, Clip & Ship may not work. Similarly, Clip & Ship uses
the [twitch-python](https://github.com/PetterKraabol/Twitch-Python) package 
to grab information about and videos of a channel. If that breaks, so does 
Clip & Ship. 

## Bug Reports & Contributions

Found a bug and want to report it? Like the project and want to contribute?
Head over to the [GitHub](https://github.com/KilometersFan/ClipAndShip) page.
Create new issues for bugs and fork the repo and create a pull request for
contributions.

## Local Development

Install the required libraries listed in `requirements.txt`. 

To build everything as a script change directory to `src` and run `python3 clipnship.py`. To run the data_exporter program, run `python3 data_exporter.py` in the same directory. The upsampler will only work if you processed at least one video for the specified channel.

To build everything into one folder use the `clip&ship_folder.spec` file. First you must change the second value in the `pathex` array to the absolute path of the `src` directory of the repo, and the first value of the first tuple in the `datas` array to the location of the `eel.js` file (which is probably in your python `site-packages` directory), Run `pyinstaller clip&ship_folder.spec` in the src directory. 

To build everything into an executable with a console (just the `clipnship.exe` file), repeat the same steps above but with the `clip&ship_console.spec` file.

To build everything into an app, repeat the same steps above but with the `clip&ship_app.spec` file.

Add the `--noconfirm` flag to skip the confirmation prompt that asks if you want to delete the dist folder's contents.

Commit message:

Added comment info for local app bundle build, update tradeoffs section

index.markdown, after:

---
layout: single
title: Clip & Ship
author_profile: true
header: 
    overlay_image: assets/images/logo_banner_textless.png
    overlay_filter: 0
---
## What is Clip & Ship?
_Clip it and ship it!_

Are you a content creator or editor? Do you hate keeping track of or scouring through 
VODs for notable moments during a broadcast? Are you tired of downloading 
entire VODs to get the footage you want? Then you need Clip & Ship!

Clip & Ship is a standalone application that enables content creators and Twitch streamers
to quickly find specific types of moments during their broadcast by analyzing
emote usage within a VOD. 

## Features

With Clip & Ship you can: 
- Create/Edit/Remove categories based on a streamers Twitch/BTTV/FFZ/other emotes.
  (ex: a "funny" category might include emotes like ![LULW](https://cdn.frankerfacez.com/emoticon/139407/1), 
  ![OMEGALUL](https://cdn.frankerfacez.com/emoticon/128054/1), 
  ![peepoGiggles](https://cdn.betterttv.net/emote/5e0bcf69031ec77bab473476/1x), etc).
- Process a streamer's VOD to find the best moments for each category.
- View processed moments in the app VOD player and see detailed statistics on emote usage during the moment.
- Download any of the moments found during processing.
- Download other moments by specifying the start & end time.
- Download the whole VOD.
- Export the list of processed moments to a CSV file.

## Install
Clip & Ship currently is supported on Mac OS and can be downloaded as an app, as an executable with a console, and as a folder with an executable.
The sizes for each bundle are 493.5 MB, 443.7 MB, and 169.8 MB respectively.

These bundles are available to download at this [link][1]. The `app.zip` file is the preferred method of install.

You will also need to download and install [ffmpeg][4] in order to download clips/vods. How you download it depends on which bundle you choose.

When running as an executable with console or as a folder with `console.zip` or `folder.zip` respectively, you can install ffmpeg with [Homebrew][2]

When running as an app with `app.zip`, use the ffmpeg executable provided or download it [here][3].
If downloading it, make sure to download the zip file under the "FFmpeg" section. Extract the zip file and copy or move the `ffmpeg` executable in the same folder as the Clip & Ship app.
You will also need to give permission to your `ffmpeg` executable to be run since it's from the internet. This can be done via the terminal using `sudo chmod +x /path/to/Clip&ShipLocation/ffmpeg` or by clicking the exe and giving permission in corresponding the prompt.

[1]:https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ezPO_5EmMOlqLagOl5KOLWunkLthpnDH?usp=sharing
[2]:https://brew.sh/
[3]:https://evermeet.cx/ffmpeg/
[4]:https://ffmpeg.org/

## Why Clip & Ship?

### It's Free
No upfront or subscription costs. Compared to similar services like 
[Highlight Play](https://highlightplay.com/) that have monthly fees, 
Clip & Ship is **the** cost-effective service to use.

### It's Smart
No other service can help you find specific types of moments.

### It's Fast
Instead of going through hours of footage, you can use Clip & Ship and 
have a list of notable moments ready in minutes. With tech from 
[twitch-dl](https://github.com/ihabunek/twitch-dl), downloads are lighting quick.

### It's Efficient
Clip & Ship supports parallel processing, so you can process multiple VODs simultaneously.

### It's Space-Saving
Only download what you need. No need to download a 6-hour long VOD just
to grab 10 minutes of footage.

### It's Open Source
The Clip & Ship source code is publicly available, meaning anyone can
analyze the workflow, verify no malicious code is present, and suggest
improvements to maintain Clip & Ship's integrity and efficiency. 

## Tradeoffs

### More Initial Setup
Unlike a website or other standalone desktop applications, 
Clip & Ship can't be run out of the box; Users must get 
their own Twitch API credentials and download/install/give
permission to ffmepg. 


### Everything's Local
Servers and cloud storage are expensive, and I decided to develop this project
free of charge. So, Clip & Ship runs entirely on your machine and uses up
your storage. But that Clip & Ship is running locally is why it is free 
and open source.

### Reliance on APIs and third-party packages
Clip & Ship heavily relies on outside tech to function. The APIs used are
Twitch, BTTV, and FFZ to grab emote data for a channel. If **any** of these
APIs change or fail, Clip & Ship may not work. Similarly, Clip & Ship uses
the [twitch-python](https://github.com/PetterKraabol/Twitch-Python) package 
to grab information about and videos of a channel. If that breaks, so does 
Clip & Ship. 

## Bug Reports & Contributions

Found a bug and want to report it? Like the project and want to contribute?
Head over to the [GitHub](https://github.com/KilometersFan/ClipAndShip) page.
Create new issues for bugs and fork the repo and create a pull request for
contributions.

## Local Development

Install the required libraries listed in `requirements.txt`. 

To build everything as a script change directory to `src` and run `python3 clipnship.py`. To run the data_exporter program, run `python3 data_exporter.py` in the same directory. The upsampler will only work if you processed at least one video for the specified channel.

To build everything into one folder use the `clip&ship_folder.spec` file. First you must change the second value in the `pathex` array to the absolute path of the `src` directory of the repo, and the first value of the first tuple in the `datas` array to the location of the `eel.js` file (which is probably in your python `site-packages` directory), Run `pyinstaller clip&ship_folder.spec` in the src directory. 

To build everything into an executable with a console (just the `clipnship.exe` file), repeat the same steps above but with the `clip&ship_console.spec` file.

To build everything into an app, repeat the same steps above but with the `clip&ship_app.spec` file. You will also need to uncomment and comment some lines of code regarding file paths. 
The changes are described on:

1. src/twitchdl/command.py line 54
2. src/clipnship.py lines 31-34, 476
3. src/models/util.py line 14

Add the `--noconfirm` flag to skip the confirmation prompt that asks if you want to delete the `dist/` folder's contents.
